# **Joo Sung Kim**
# *June 4th 2020*

## **UI Development Choices**
### `Swift UI`
The newest kind of them all. <br/>
Supports devices only after IOS13.0, sacrificing the compatibility for older devices. <br/>
It enables for real time preview of UI development without having to use a simulator. Such feature makes development heavier, so bigger projects are not perfect for buggy/relatviely new `SwiftUI` feature.

### `Storyboard`
Older version of `SwiftUI`. <br/>
enables for UI development with a mouse click. Thought the source still has to connect to app delegate for it to work.

### `UIKit`
Most likely to be used for my own purposes. <br/>
As any app gets bigger and heavier, (such as *Hitit*) apps will have more images and views that it will work with. <br/>
Reloading and previewing all steps through development can be unnecessarily buggy or slow, and keyboard development is faster for most of us. <br/>


## **`AppDelegate` vs `SceneDelegate`**

`AppDelegate` is for overall app and data setup while `SceneDelegate` is for individual Scene management. <br/>

help from : https://learnappmaking.com/scene-delegate-app-delegate-xcode-11-ios-13/

### `AppDelegate`
It oversees the lifecycle of an entire application. <br/>
Current version of `IOS13` allows for multiple 'windows' or 'scenes' rather of one application. <br/>
`AppDelegate` will control all, from configuration of `UISceneSession` and options from `UIScene`.


### `SceneDelegate`
`SceneDelegate` translates to that of

## **`UIKit`**

Our Project will operate in **MVC** model. <br/>
In the filesystem called `Bundle` in Swift development, **Model**,**View**, and **Control** are divided to each directory. <br/>
**Model** directory will include those compared to  

### `UIView`
It is the overarching class of all views <br/>

### `Extension`
writing custom methods or functions for the classes that pre-exist.
```
extension String {
    func changeMyString() -> String {
        return "new String"
    }

    func isHelloWorld() -> Bool {
        return self == "Hello World!"
    }
}

//use as Such
let str: String = "Hello World!"
print(changeMyString(inputString: str))  // "new String"
print(str.isHelloWorld()) // true
```

### View Change
In the root control, instantiate the second view, push it onto the view controller stack.  <br/>
When pressed back button pop from the stack as well. <br/> ```navigationController?.popViewController(animated: true)```

### Action Handler
When action happens (e.g. Button Pressed), it will need a `@objc` func tag in front. <br/>
Wherever we configure the `UIControl` to be handled, the `addTarget` will need a `#selector` just as it uses `objc` functions as well. (Such is a Swift property)

## **Conclusion**
Today marked the second day of Swift learning for myself. <br/>
Continous study in programmatic UI, instead of using `Storyboard` or `SwiftUI`. <br/>
Now there are multiple views that I'm able to connect and move between. There will be more progress to come and to get to an actual junior swift developer level. <br/>
I will try my first practice app on my own to create a simple app tomorrow.
