# **Joo Sung Kim**
# *July 10th 2020*
# **Sprint 2**

This sprint consisted of personal projects again. <br/>
I attempted to create two personal applications, with one being a custom weather app, and another being an instagram info scraper to track followers of individual accounts.<br/>
However, given the 8 days time frame + difficulty, I was only able to finish the first - weather app. <br/>
I intend on finishing the other one somewhere/ some time else. <br/>

## **Weather Forecast App**

By building a weather forecast app, I intended on learning a few different features to use.<br/>
- API calls to the back end
- Asynchronous thread management
- Delegates to pass data between views (objects)
- MVVM instead of MVC

### API calls
Because most of the information that we need/want to display on our app is better stored remotely, we make use of API calls to communicate with the server and grab the necessary information. <br/>
In most cases that I will encounter, API calls are handled by HTTP request. <br/>
I will call on a  `URLSession` and a task. <br/>
We will pass in `completionHandler` to receive and resolve the received data into an object (DTO in our case). <br/>
I can either let `completionHandler` to alter/create DTO or use `DispatchQueue` to actually changed the view itself. <br/>
That is, altering the view model to change the view or altering the data objects in view within itself. <br/>

### Asynchronous thread management
When we are using cells and `UICollectionView`, there are multiple instances where the background thread will create cell itself and let it on hold. <br/>
Because instantiating the object only on appear maybe slow and heavy, background thread will create the corresponding code. <br/>
If it were to create the cell only when viewed, cells like Maps or video players will never load instantly, making UX much worse than what we currently have.<br/>

### Delegates
To move from one view to another, there had to be a use of delegates to make communication possible between views. <br/>
For example in the weather app, there had to be some protocol from `citySearchController` to `cityListController` in order to reflect on the addition of cities to the list. <br/>
So we make use of the delegate - making a weak reference to an instantiation of the desired delegate will allow for
the new object to communicate with its parent/root object. <br/>
It will weakly instantiate functions/ data transformation as objects for easy communcation and memory handling when objects need to be deinit or let go. <br/>

### MVVM
I didn't really get around this concept this time. <br/>
From what I see in my teammates code, I understand that VM is the middle ground of communication between model and the view. <br/>
Controllers are inevitable architecture in ios development as it is fortified by Apple themselves. <br/>
In MVVM, controllers are treated as the delivery method for users to view same as views, thereby giving VM the control over UI. <br/>
UI is subject to chaning the VM. 
